In this lesson we're gonna look at how
to creat explicit iterators for both lists
and files.
It's very simple to do.
Let's start a new program, we're gonna
call it internext.py,
since we're talking about a iterfunction
and a next function.
First thing let's do is let's create a
small list, because we don't
wanna make it too long, since we're going
to manually iterate through it.
We'll set up a list containing three
numbers, one, two, and three.
To create an iterator an explicit
iterator.
We'll call it that to distinguish between
the implicit or
internal iterator that is also created
with four loops, for example.
We simply create a variable and we call
the function
iter, with a sequence of data, such as a
list.
Once we've done that, then our variable IT
now
becomes, an iterator tied to this sequence
of data.
If we wanna display the first element, we
can do it one of two ways.
The first way is to use an object that's
part of
the iterator object, and it's called next,
but notice that it has
two underscores before the word next and
after the word next, and
yet those last two are before the
parenthesis, signifying a function call.
So, that's kind of awkward.
But, let's see what it does.
So, we're gonna save it.
Bring up our command window, run our
program.
Notice it takes us to the first element.
That's what next does.
And then, of course, the print command
will
display it, or the print function will
display it.
That's one way to move the iterator
through the sequence, but an easier way to
do it is to use the external function
next, and call it with the iterator.
So, if we do this, we'll get the same
result in a much easier to call form.
You see we still get one.
So once we've started through, we can
simply move through
the rest of the sequence just by calling
the next function.
So there's the first element.
There's the second element.
There's the third element.
Lets clear the screen.
And so there are our three elements.
What's interesting is what happens when we
try to go one more.
When we try to go beyond the end, the
explicit iterator crashes and we get an
exception saying that
we've reached the stop iteration point,
we've reached the end
of the sequence and a stop iteration
message is returned.
When we use a implicit method such as a
for loop, the for loop is
programmed to notice stop before the stop
iteration exception is thrown.
And we're gonna talk more in the course,
about exception handling.
And we'll cover how to handle iterator
exceptions in that chapter.
But for now, just understand that
internally that exception is dealt with,
so we don't see it when we run a for loop
for example.
The iterator that's implicit in the for
loop, knows
to stop before the stop iteration
exception is thrown.
Files are handled the same way that lists
are handled.
Except, a file object is an iterator.
So, let me show you what I mean by that.
We'll create a file object, we'll call it
file IT.
Then we'll call next on the file iterator,
and
it should display the first element of the
file, which is the Great 100, I believe.
Let's clear the screen, here,
just like so.
Notice that I also added a new line,
there.
We might want to get rid of that in
subsequent prints, by setting end equal
entistring, like so.
But notice I didn't have to use the
iterfunction with
the file object or anything, because a
file object automatically.
Is setup as an interator, so we can
iterate through
a file, exactly like we iterate through a
list for
example; using next and I'll stop there;
because the functionality
is exactly the same for files as it is for
lists.
So to summarize, when we want to create an
explicit iterator,
we first have to have some sequence of
data to iterate over.
Then we call the inner function if we're
working with a list for example and then
to access an element we simply call the
next function with the iterator object as
our argument.
The only difference for file iterators, is
we don't have
to call the iterator function because when
we open a file.
That file object is automatically set up
as an iterator.
So with that, we're ready to move on to
the
next lesson, where we're going to discuss
iterators and dictionaries.
[BLANK_AUDIO]